All right.
So we're having a little bit of a political algorithm here.
So we're trying to find out who our election how many possible election winners we can have.
So we're going to take in an array of numbers.
These are essentially the people in the running for the race and K here is the amount of votes left
and we want to find out how many people could possibly still be a winner.
And so too if we added the three would be five.
They're not going to win because at best they're going to tie tie so we're not counting and then three
three plus three or six so they could win great.
Five plus three is eight.
Of course they can win them in two plus three is five again.
Unless they they're not going to win.
So we have two potential candidates that could be winners here based off the votes that are left.
And so let's jump into it.
The two events I have here are sort and math max which is what I use to solve this.
All right.
So I solve this was I first found what the largest vote is.
I then sort the array of votes.
The reason for this is in edge cases where there is no votes left.
We need to find out if there is a if we need to return a winner or not meaning that the first vote is
the largest vote is done equal there's not an equal second largest vote.
And after that we just keep track of a a in the running vote count and we subtract most votes from the
current vote and see if it's less than the votes left.
If it is we add one then we return.
So let's start there.
We're going to start here with a in what I call in the running and the Silvy number.
Actually we don't need to say that that is there at the end here.
What we want to do is just try and turn in the running.
Excellent.
And as always I forget during Qualcomm's We'll turn back on.
So right now we're not really doing much of anything.
Next thing that we want to do is want to find out what the most votes are so or yeah most votes is fine.
I was thinking maybe the largest vote I think most votes is fine and we're going to do this using math
Max.
And then here is the spread operator to unwrap votes and just give us the value from it.
So I'll give us the largest value after that.
We are going to have a sorted votes and this is going to be equal to the votes sort in in here.
We're going to have an A and A B and all it's going to return is be my say which will be the numerically
sorted from largest to smallest vote.
All right.
We're going to have a little check here.
This is for those edge cases although here we don't have to worry about it.
I did in the in the when I was doing this where we checked to see if the largest vote we have and remember
we sorted it from highest to least if it's not equal to sorted votes one index one and there is no votes
left.
Meaning that we have a winner and we don't need a counting the votes just go ahead and turn to one because
in that instance we have a winner and there's no calculations that need to be done.
We just need to tell them hey you won.
After that we just have to do the bulk of our logic here which is hey we're going to iterate through
our vote count array here and what we want to do is we're just getting going and doing.
If this is if most votes my vote count
is less than k.
Meaning that the largest number minus the current value here the current vote count is less than the
number k then we can increment the in the running count.
So we're going to add one to that and that's it.
At the end of the day.
So we're getting the largest vote so we know to see if the votes left essentially are enough to overcome
the lead.
That's really it at the end of day we do have some additional logic in here for the cases where there's
no votes left in.
Is there a winner.
Is there not a winner so handle hand.
That's how we're handling that with the above statement.
But that's pretty much it.
It was a fun one because it sort of relatable when I solved I think it was around the time there's an
election of some sort.
So.